---
title: "Update: Sept 5, 2021"
date: 2021-09-05T16:17:18Z
draft: false
author: hollis
authorTwitter: "david_hollis"
projects:
    - site
---

**The website launched!** This week I published this very website, after doing a little fighting with git submodules, DNS, and git submodules again. Let's get into it:


## AWS Amplify Setup

I've used [AWS Amplify][amplify] in the past for static sites built with [Hugo][hugo], and I've found it to be one of the simplest publishing platforms to set up sustainably (as long as you're familiar with git and DNS configuration). The biggest upsides from my perspectives are that I don't have to maintain the infra: Amazon sets up the underlying storage, a CloudFront distribution to handle traffic, and SSL setup. Plus, I can connect it to the GitHub repostitory and Amplify will watch for pushes on my `main` branch and rebuild automatically. All of this ens up costing less than $1/month.

But there were a few problems I ran into. First off, I originally had delegated the DNS for `hollis.computer` to Linode, my VPS host, but Linode doesn't support ANAME records, which are necessary for pointing the "naked" domain at a CloudFront distribution. To get around this, I migrated from Linode's DNS manager to AWS Route 53. I mostly followed [Amazon's instructions][migrate-route53], except I ignored the parts about fiddling with the TTL since I didn't care about continuity of service (nobody reads this yet!).

The full migration took about 2 days waiting for various caches to expire after the initial configuration, but in the mean time I could at least test out building the site on the testing domain Amplify sets up. However, I found only blank pages. After reviewing the build logs, I discovered that the clone step was failing to pull in the submodule that contained the site's [theme][theme-repo]--it was cloning over ssh, and they key it was using wasn't set up as a deploy key in `panr`'s repo. Even if I could somehow get the public key (I found some suggestions about modifying the build config to print it out), I can't imagine `panr` wants to be in the business of adding random strangers' ssh keys to their repo.

However, I did find [one suggestion][amplify-submodule-fix] to fetch it over https instead. Fortunately since the repo is public, I didn't have to manage any secrets, I could just update my `.gitmodules`:

{{< code language="diff" title=".gitmodules" >}}
[submodule "themes/terminal"]
	path = themes/terminal
-	url = git@github.com:panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git
+	url = https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git
{{< /code >}}

And with that, it worked!


## Modifying the Theme

The next step was making a few changes to the theme: adding Scala support to the syntax highlighter, and adding a purple color scheme. For the former, since it's possibly more widely applicable than just on my blog (Scala's a popular enough language!), I [opened a PR][scala-support-pr] to contribute that upstream. For the latter, I elected to just branch off my Scala support branch and add it there (once my PR is merged I can rebase my theme branch). I fought a little with JavaScript tooling, but eventually got my change built and committed.

Now I had to point the submodule in the site repo to the right place. I made another `.gitmodules` change:

{{< code language="diff" title=".gitmodules" >}}
[submodule "themes/terminal"]
	path = themes/terminal
-	url = https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal.git
+	url = https://github.com/davidhollis/hugo-theme-terminal.git
+	branch = purple-theme
{{< /code >}}

and made a corresponding change to the repo config in my local clone. But to my frustration, git wasn't showing any available submodule changes. After poking around, I discovered that my working copy had the submodule reified and still had _its_ `origin` pointed at `panr`'s version. So I popped into that directory and

```
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/davidhollis/hugo-theme-terminal.git
git fetch origin
git checkout purple-theme
```

So after setting the appropriate upstream in no less than _three_ different places, I now finally had managed to turn the site purple.


## Project Pages

TODO


[amplify]: https://aws.amazon.com/amplify/
[hugo]: https://gohugo.io/
[migrate-route53]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/migrate-dns-domain-in-use.html
[theme-repo]: https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal
[amplify-submodule-fix]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/57323851
[scala-support-pr]: https://github.com/panr/hugo-theme-terminal/pull/273